Welcome... to another episode of Shiloh Creek. ...Where the water runs slow, the friends look out for each other, and every story starts here — pondside — with me.
I'm Old Timber. ...The elephant elder. ...And today's story... is the night a bear cub tried to make the moon hurry up.
Today... I want to ask you something, little ones. ...A question the wise people in the Bible used to ask each other... a long, long time ago. ...What does it mean... to be patient? ...Listen carefully. ...The answer's in the story.
Now... gather round, little ones. Come close by the pond.
[excited] Old Timber — Old Timber, is it about the moon? ...It's about the moon, isn't it? ...I knew it was about the moon!
Mm. Yes, Bongo. ...It is, in fact, about the moon. ...And it is about you. ...And it is a little bit about a flower. ...Bless your thumping paws.
Now... settle in. ...Here we go.
Now, this was back in early summer, when the days were long and the evenings took their time getting started. ...And on this particular evening — bless the slow sky — there was a thing about to happen at the pond that only happens once a year. ...A moonflower was going to open.
A moonflower, little ones, is a small white flower that only blooms when the moon climbs high. ...It opens slow. ...It opens late. ...And it opens for nobody in particular. ...That's the thing about a moonflower. ...You don't make it bloom. ...It just... does. ...When it's ready.
Now... this was going to be a problem... for somebody we know. ...And that somebody — bless his impatient little heart — came thumping down the path before the moon was even halfway up.
Now, this is where things got interesting...
And over hopped Bongo the bear cub, with his usual cheerful crash. ...He saw the little white bud sitting closed by the pond. ...He looked up at the sky. ...The moon was — well — not in any particular hurry. ...And Bongo said,
[excited] Okay! ...Okay, moonflower. ...I am HERE. ...You can open now. ...I'm ready. ...The moon is — ...the moon is taking its TIME. ...HELLO MOON! ...Could you hurry, please?
Now, the moon — bless its big quiet face — did not, in fact, hurry. ...The moon does not work that way. ...And from somewhere very, very fast, somebody arrived to tell Bongo this.
And Zippy the hummingbird darted in, going so fast she was three places at once. ...She squeaked,
[excited] Wait — wait — — I just had SEVEN ideas! ...Bongo — you can't YELL at the moon! ...You have to ASK it. ...Politely. ...In MOON-language. ...Which I am inventing. ...Right now. ...Step one — wave at it! Step two — sing to it! Step three — bring it a SNACK!
[excited] A snack! ...A snack for the moon! ...I got this! ...What does the moon eat?
[excited] Cheese! ...Or — moon-pies? ...Are those for the moon? ...Are moon-pies FROM the moon? ...This is REALLY important and I don't know!
[excited] Cheese is GOOD. ...The moon LIKES cheese. ...I'll get cheese! ...Wait — does the moon have a MOUTH?
[excited] I don't KNOW! ...Nobody KNOWS! ...This is why we need a COMMITTEE!
Now... while Bongo and Zippy were busy debating moon-snacks — and the snack-list, bless it, had reached fourteen items — somebody else came along. ...Slow. ...Very slow. ...As slow as a Tuesday.
And Shelly the tortoise — wise old Shelly — looked up at the moon, looked at the flower, looked at Bongo, and said,
...Bongo. ...You cannot rush the moon. ...The moon... is fine.
[excited] But — Shelly! ...The moonflower! ...It's just SITTING there! ...Closed! ...What if it forgot? ...What if it's SHY?
...It did not forget. ...It is not shy. ...It is a flower.
Now, this — bless the moment — is when Bongo had what he later called his GREATEST idea. ...And what the rest of us would later call... a lot of lanterns.
[excited] WAIT. ...WAIT WAIT. ...If the flower opens for the MOON... ...and the moon is being SLOW... ...we just need... a FAKE moon! ...I'll build a FAKE moon!
[excited] Oh — OH — I LOVE THIS PLAN. ...We need lanterns! ...And string! ...And a TALL stick! ...And — okay — okay — okay — I'm getting the lanterns!
...You are going to build... a fake moon. ...Out of lanterns. ...For a flower. ...Mm.
[excited] I got this! ...I really got this this time!
And from up in the big old oak — because of course he had been listening to ALL of this — came a voice that had been waiting for its moment for a good ten minutes. ...And high in the branches sat Garingo the parrot, all bright feathers and dramatic flourish. ...He called down,
BEHOLD! A QUEST! A bear cub! A hummingbird! A fake moon! ...I shall narrate the construction! ...In VERSE!
...No verse.
...A SHORT verse. ...A couplet. ...Two lines. ...Generous.
...Mm.
Lo, a moonflower closed beneath the night... ...And Bongo built a moon for it, of light. ...There. ...A couplet. ...As negotiated.
...That actually rhymed.
Now, the lantern-tower took longer than Bongo had planned. ...Things did. ...The lanterns kept rolling away. ...Zippy kept inventing new lantern arrangements faster than they could be built. ...Garingo recited his couplet three times because — and I quote — 'the audience needed it'. ...And the moonflower — bless it — sat. ...Closed. ...Unbothered.
And while all of that was going on, somebody else had quietly slipped into the clearing. ...And at the edge of the leaves, soft-eyed and a little uncertain, stood Fern the fawn. ...She whispered,
[whispers] Oh... ...is that... is that the moonflower?
...Mm. ...That's the one, Fern. ...They're building it a moon.
[whispers] Oh. ...Should I — should I help?
...You could just sit. ...With me. ...Sometimes that's the helping.
Mm. ...Watching Shelly say that... I remembered something. ...A line from the Bible. ...About being still.
And so — while Bongo's lantern-tower wobbled into the world and Zippy zipped above it and Garingo recited his couplet for a fourth time — Fern and Shelly sat. ...They didn't say anything. ...They just sat. ...Bless their quiet hearts. ...The loud ones did not notice. ...Not yet.
Well. ...The lantern-tower was finally finished. ...It was tall. ...It was lopsided. ...It looked, if you squinted, very slightly like a moon. ...And Bongo stood back, took the deepest bear-cub breath of his short life, and announced —
[excited] BEHOLD! ...The FAKE MOON! ...And I — I am the MOON-KING! ...Bow, moonflower! ...Bow before your... before your... your...
[excited] ...wait. ...Wait. ...Why am I yelling at a flower? ...Am I doing this because it's important... or because I'm bored?
Mm. ...That, Bongo, is a very good question.
...As I was SAYING. ...In verse. ...'A bear cub stood, a moon he made...' ...Wait. ...Wait, that doesn't rhyme. ...Oh dear.
...Did I really say BEHOLD too? ...After Bongo said it? ...That's just copying.
[whispers] ...Like a bell. ...On a cold rock.
Mm. ...Bless him. ...He'd been muttering that one all spring. ...Something the Mudpuppies told him once. ...He still wasn't quite sure what it meant. ...Neither was I, truth be told.
[excited] Okay — okay — okay — the fake moon is NOT WORKING. ...The flower is just... ...sitting. ...Bongo, your fake moon is BAD. ...I made it, so I can say.
[excited] I — I — I don't got this. ...I really don't got this. ...The moon won't come. ...The flower won't open. ...I'm — I'm a bad Moon-King.
Now... that, my little ones, was when the Mudpuppy brothers came up from the water. ...Three frogs. ...With opinions.
[excited] Bongo! ...BONGO. ...Bongo. ...You know what's slower than the moon?
[playful] A SLUG!
[confident] A WET slug.
[excited] We are slow. ...We are very, VERY slow. ...Famously slow.
[playful] But we still get places!
[confident] Mudpuppies have solved it, friends. ...Patience is... ...being a puddle.
Now... I don't know if that's what patience IS, exactly. ...But it... isn't entirely wrong.
[excited] Sit with us, Bongo. ...In the puddle. ...The puddle is patient.
[playful] The puddle has been there for HOURS. ...And it hasn't even MOVED!
[whispers] ...Oh. ...Oh okay. ...That's... ...that's actually good advice.
Now... this is the part of the story I love. ...Because while Bongo was sitting down on the wobbly bottom lantern, and Zippy had finally — for one whole second — stopped moving, somebody noticed what Fern and Shelly had been doing all this time. ...Which was... nothing. ...Just sitting. ...By the pond. ...Watching.
[whispers] ...Shelly. ...Fern. ...What — what are you guys doing?
...Being still. ...Try it.
And so — for the first time all evening — Bongo sat down. ...Properly. ...And Zippy landed. ...And Garingo, bless his bright feathers, tucked his couplet under his wing and went quiet. ...And we all just... waited. ...Together. ...By the pond. ...And the moonflower... did nothing.
And then... while everyone was still being still... I did what I sometimes do at the pond, when the night is being kind. ...I hummed.
Hmm... mmm... hmm-mmm... hm-mmm... hmmm.
...And nobody said a word. ...The crickets kept their slow song. ...The water kept its slow lap. ...The moon kept climbing, the way the moon does. ...And we just... waited.
[whispers] ...Old Timber. ...Old Timber. ...Look.
Mm. ...I see it, little one. ...I see it.
[whispers] ...it's — it's opening. ...The moonflower. ...It's actually opening.
[whispers] ...I didn't even invent anything. ...How is it doing that.
...It opened for whoever sat still. ...That was us. ...Mm.
[whispers] ...I think... I think Shelly was right. ...All along.
And just like that — the loudest plan in the world had become the quietest moment. ...And the moonflower opened... right on time. ...Which was, of course, the time it had always been going to open. ...We just couldn't see that yet.
Now, after all that... we sat by the pond a little longer, with the moonflower fully open, the moon finally where it had been heading all along, and I asked them — friends, what do you think it was, in the end, that made it work?
[whispers] Okay — okay — I think... ...patience isn't doing nothing. ...It's choosing to be still. ...There's a difference. ...I — I might need to practise that one. ...A lot.
[whispers] ...Um. ...I think... ...I think it was when I stopped doing things. ...That's weird. ...Stopping is — stopping is hard for me.
Mm. ...It is, Bongo. ...It is the hardest thing for some of us. ...And it gets easier.
And I — I think... ...sometimes a moment doesn't need a couplet. ...Sometimes it just needs... nothing at all.
[whispers] ...I think... ...the flower was always going to open. ...We just had to be there. ...Quietly. ...That's all.
...Mm. ...I just sat down. ...The flower did the rest.
...Hm. ...Now... isn't that something? ...Funny how the louder we got... the slower it went. ...And the moment we all sat still... the flower opened... right when it was ready.
And that, my little ones, is how I remember it. ...The night we tried to hurry the moon.
Now, before you go — Professor Hoot has something he very much wants to tell us. ...He has a fact. ...Heaven help us all.
Ahem. ...Ahem. ...Children. ...Gather round. ...Today, a fact known to be unequivocally true.
The moon. ...That great pale orb in the sky. ...Is, in fact... ...made of marmalade.
I have it on excellent authority. ...From me. ...Last Tuesday. ...The investigation was rigorous. ...I held up a piece of toast. ...And the moon... ...did NOT object.
Furthermore. ...The moon glows orange in autumn. ...What is orange? ...Marmalade is orange. ...What is round? ...A jar of marmalade is round. ...The evidence is, frankly, overwhelming.
I have, of course, considered the alternative theories. ...Cheese. ...A rock. ...A very large pearl. ...All of them — and I say this with respect — wrong. ...The moon is marmalade. ...Class dismissed.
...Mm. ...Well. ...He's wrong again, isn't he? ...Bless his bright feathers.
Now, the moon, little ones — for the record — is not marmalade. ...It is, in fact, a big quiet rock that travels around our world. ...And it does not eat toast.
[excited] Old Timber — ...what did we learn today?
Mm. ...We learned, my little ones... that being patient isn't about waiting. ...It's about being still while you wait. ...When you stop yelling at the moon... you can hear the moon.
And there's a line from the Bible, little ones. ...From Psalms — a song-poem from a very old part of the Bible — that says: 'Be still, and know that I am God.' ...Two thousand years old, give or take. ...Sometimes it's just three little words. ...Be still. ...And the rest of the line is the part you grow into.
Until the next breeze brings us together, little ones. ...Be still out there.
See you next time... somewhere in Shiloh Creek.